Title: Be A Yes Man (Or Woman!)
Tags: posts, forty-eight

I'd argue that a great movie is one that leaves its audience in astonishment
and wonder. Personally, any movie that leaves you with nothing more than a few
laughs or a stream of tears is just a negligible fad ( _ahem, chick flicks_ ).



There are a bunch of movies I could think of at the top of my head that have
left a lasting impression: Pulp Fiction, Fight Club, Shawshank Redemption, A
Beautiful Mind, Life Is Beautiful, _the list goes on._ But there are two
recent movies that have gone beyond leaving a lasting impression and changed
my perspective on things, as ordinary and typical as they may be.



One of these movies being _Limitless_. Cheesy as it may be, I watched this
movie at a point in time when I had the same ambition as the pre-NZT Eddie. It
made me realize how, if I maintained my trajectory, I would reach none of my
goals. Consequently, I began changing my habits and have since been on the
road towards [continual self improvement](http://giorgiodelgado.ca/the-
starbucks-alternative.html "The Starbucks Alternative").



The second (and perhaps even cheesier) movie that has changed my outlook on
life is _Yes Man_. It made me realize how shy and fearful most people are
(think of the times you've said to yourself and others I _should have_ ,
_could have_ , and _would have_ ). I definitely do not want to live a life of
complacency and regret, thus being someone with an open mind and the bravery
to try even the things that question my beliefs has allowed me to gain
valuable insight.



If you haven't watched either of these movies I highly suggest you do. I'm
well aware of the fact that these two movies are nothing close to
revolutionary. However, they do convey a strong message that should be grasped
by all.

