Title: Parlez-Vous Anglais? (Part 1)
Tags: software, tutorial
Summary: In this article, I introduce my latest side project, Parlez-Vous, and begin a blog-series where I discuss the past, present and future of the project.


# Table Of Contents

- tldr
- Background
- Part 1:
    - Arriving at a name
    - Thinking about the tech stack
        - server
            - Using Result instead of try / catch
        - landing page & web app
        - embeddable widget


---
## tldr

- New side project called parlez-vous ([website](https://parlez-vous.io))
- Server coded in TypeScript but will eventually be ported to Rust
    - [Source code](https://github.com/parlez-vous/server)
- Landing Page is a webapp
    - [Source code](https://github.com/parlez-vous/site)
    - Written in Elm
    - Will be an admin panel for domain owners
    - Might evolve into more!
- Embeddable widget will probably be written Preact because it needs to as small as possible

---

## Background

In my [last blog post]({filename}2018-10-06-overengineered.md), I mentioned how I had been thinking about adding a comment system to my blog. Since this is a static website, I do not have a server available to create an endpoint to handle comments.

> For context, a comment system is a service that hosts comments for you. Comment systems are valuable to websites because they encourage engagement with your content and increase user retention.

I began searching for options and found several: 

- [StaticMan](https://staticman.net/)
- [Commento](https://commento.io/)
- [Remarkbox](https://www.remarkbox.com/)

Of the three, commento seemed to be the most likely candidate. However, after a few days of thinking more about the issue at hand, I had a great idea. 

> "Why don't I make my own embeddable comment system!"

## Part 1: My Journey Into Comment Systems

I've been wanting to create a product from scratch for some time now. The issue is that I've been searching for something at the intersection of simple, but interesting.

A comment system is simple enough so as to not be a project out of my technical reach, yet is interesting enough to keep me motivated to continue working on it. 

As a startup-obsessed person, I always have these wild ideas about extraordinary companies that solve inmense problems, but I fail to envision the first version - that initial kernel that snowballs into a final grandiose company.

A comment system, to me, has that feel of the tiny kernel that can evolve into a solution to a (yet unknown) large problem!

But alas, my main goal is to learn. All else is peripheral.


### Arriving at a Name

Being bilingual (with a basic understanding of French, Portuguese, and Italian) has always helped me expand my vocabulary in an english context. One day, the name Parlez-Vous popped into my head and I immediately knew that this would be the name of the product. 

> "Parlez-Vous" is French for "Do you speak"


### Thinking About the Tech Stack

Like I mentioned, my main goal was, and continues to be, to learn.

I figured out early on that there would be three core pieces in a comment system:

- The comment server
- The landing page and web application
- The embeddable comment widget

#### The Comment Server

You can find the source code for the server [here](https://github.com/parlez-vous/server). 

I knew the database was going to be PostgreSQL. It's the database I'm most comfortable with and as fan of strongly-typed things, Postgres is a no-brainer.

The programming language of choice was the big question mark for me.

I began working on this server in Rust, but decided after a few days that the rate of progress was way too slow. There's still quite a lot that my brain struggles to understand. The combination of:

- low-level language concepts (such as mutexes, smart pointers, etc...)
- the borrow checker
- traits / type classes

Was too much to take in *while* thinking about the architecture of a comment web server. So I decided that v1 of parlez-vous' server would be written in TypeScript.

I have a lot of experience working with TypeScript and express because of my [day-job](https://setter.com/). This experience has taught me a lot about how dangerous expressjs middleware can become. 

You have functions that assume that some other function has done something. ExpressJS middleware encourages tight coupling between request-handling functions.

Example: The `body-parser` npm module adds the `.body` field to your express `req` request handler parameters.

As a server grows in scale and complexity, developers can and will add way too much indirection by way of middleware; eventually leading to request handlers that assume way too much (Does req have `x` inside it? does `req` have `y` inside it also? If it doesn't have `y` then it means that it has `z`).

If you read through the code, you'll notice that I don't really leverage the notion of express middleware. I make everything self-contained. With zero assumptions :)

My experience working with Rust, Elm and to a small extent Haskell, has taught me the value of strongly-typed systems. It's amazing how much clarity you have as a developer when you code *after* you've thought about the types of your system. The puzzle puts itself together! It's also great working with systems that don't throw exceptions, but rather encode the potential for error within the typesystem itself.

JavaScript / TypeScript both have the `throw` and `try` / `catch` idioms at your disposal, but there's a more elengant (and safer) way to handle potential failure states.

That's why I wrote my own `Result` type. You can find the class declaration [here](https://github.com/parlez-vous/server/blob/master/src/utils.ts#L7). A `Result` encodes the possibility of success or failure within the typesystem.

Dealing with errors by throwing exceptions is bound to lead to runtime exceptions when you or a colleague forget to catch these thrown exceptions. The beauty of encoding a success or failure state in the typesystem is that now you get compile-time guarantees around functions that *may* fail. 

Here's an example usage of result from my server: 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/gDelgado14/86287bd69d3459fe4b566deb149497d4.js"></script>

A few things to note. The return type is `Promise<Result<whatever>, string>`. In plain english, this means, "I return a Promise, which will never throw, and has only two scenarios: Success, in which case I have a `whatever` value, or failure in which case I have a `string` value". 

You can then do cool functional things like `map` a result. There's also a convenient `mapErr` method which maps a failure value into some other failure value!

Another thing to note is that the function is guaranteed to never throw. This is because I wrap it inside a big `try/catch`. This means, like I mentioned, that there are only two (**and only two**) scenarios. Success and failure. There isn't a third random thing waiting to happen if you don't `.catch` this promise. Then the compiler becomes your friend and ensures that you are ever only dealing with one of the two states of a `Result`.

These ideas are ripped right off from the FP community (see the [Elm](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/elm/core/latest/Result), [Haskell](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/base-4.12.0.0/docs/Data-Either.html#t:Either) and [Rust](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/result/enum.Result.html) variants of Result), and the design of my `Result` class is heavily inspired by the Rust api. I figured since I'm going to port this server to Rust eventually, I may as well make it as Rust-like as possible to begin with.

Once I ship v1 of the entire software suite (the server, web app and embeddable widget), I'll begin work on porting the TypeScript server to rust. Hopefully by then the documentation on Futures will make more sense to me!

##### Proving You Control a Domain

In order to protect my server, and only allow legitimate requests, I will be implementing a [CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) whitelist. Therefore, I must know who is legitimately a user, and who is trying to post comments on behalf of a website that hasn't yet registered on parlez-vous. By knowing which sites are legitimate, I can then add them to the CORS whitelist and allow that domain to start making requests to my server.

In order to prove that someone has control of a domain, I will require them to add a `TXT` record to their domain's DNS. My server will then perform DNS lookups and search for the associated `TXT` record. At which point, a user is now free to embedd parlez-vous' comment widget into their site!


**Work remaining:**

- Set up a reverse proxy (nginx probably)
- Set up a server on a private network - only accessible through reverse proxy
    - set up SSL cert
- Set up CI / CD for https://api.parlez-vous.io
- Add missing api endpoints
    - sign in
    - sign up
- Perform periodic server-side DNS lookups

Estimate: End of January


#### Landing Page and Web App

You can find the source code for the landing page [here](https://github.com/parlez-vous/site).

This has been the funnest part so far. Elm is awesome. And the new 0.19 version is, in my opinion, a lot simpler. I recall struggling to create HTTP requests in version 0.18. There was a lot of ceremony back then. Now it's quite simple!

The goal of the web app, at least for v1, is to enable website owners to register their website so that they may enable the comment widget to work on their domain.

There's also the potential to enable site admins to customize the look and feel of their widget to better fit with their brand.

I've been thinking alot of how the webapp could also become a system to create further user engagement for each website owner. This is still very fuzzy in my head, so don't ask me about details right now!

Setting up CI / CD for the landing page was really easy too. I'm using [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) which is **amazing**. I couldn't recommend it enough. Every new commit pushed to github on the `production` branch will trigger a deploy to https://parlez-vous.io, and every new commit pushed to github on the `master` branch will trigger a deploy to a staging site located at: https://master--adoring-banach-15797c.netlify.com/ 


**Work remaining:**

- Add routing
    - admin page

Estimate: End of January


#### Embeddable Widget

I saw that Commento's embeddable widget stands at 12KB minified + gzipped. Goal #1: Ensure parlez-vous' widget is < 12KB minified + gzipped 🙃

This probably means using [Preact](https://preactjs.com/).

Another goal of parlez-vous in general will be to enable conversations without the need to sign up. Signing up before commenting creates friction and reduces engagement. In my opinion, the user journey begins with curiosity, and curiosity is very brittle. Forcing someone to sign up to make comments using a product they've probably never heard of is a very tough sell. Let the product sell itself over time, and deliver more features to those users who do decide to sign up.

I know this is all quite abstract rigth now but I think if I let these ideas percolate, they'll transform into concrete features.


**Work remaining:**

- Build the thing

Estimate: End of February


## Until Part 2

I'll write an update on my progress hopefully near end of January. Adios!

---

*This post was edited on Dec 29. You can view the revision history of this post [here](https://github.com/gDelgado14/personal-site/commits/master/content/posts/2018-12-28-parlez-pt1.md)*
