Title: Parlez-Vous Anglais? (Part 2)
Tags: software
Summary: It's been a while since I last openly discussed Parlez-Vous, and I thought that now would be a good time to write an update
UUID: d3fd6efa-8f95-4c7c-b8f5-8927be8f44f4


Link to [Part 1]({filename}2018-12-28-parlez-pt1.md)

---

I've been slowly plugging away at [parlez-vous](https://parlez-vous.io) and it's been a great learning journey. 

I've been quite obsessed on creating a well-typed and functional server architecture using TypeScript and [fp-ts](https://gcanti.github.io/fp-ts/), and I've got to say that things are looking quite promising. You can read through the code [here](https://github.com/parlez-vous/server/tree/2da071b133d3463a17351489130154338dbabb8d). Note that there are no `any` types!

I'm just about finished implementing user login and authentication, however there has been some delay because I am still familiarizing myself with the "Elm Way" of doing things. You can see my progress with the front-end [here](https://github.com/parlez-vous/site/tree/6efbb9ca60afab46085ef44195f21b0d62a9a2d9).

On the product side, I've been thinking about ways to differentiate from current services like Commento and Disqus.

I think there's a lot of room for exploration in the realm of privacy-first services. The sheer quantity of data-breaches and outright disregard for privacy is appalling within current business practices. The consumer is beginning to understand the implications of such disregard and mistreatment of sensitive data. And I believe that the business landscape will need to adapt accordingly.

You'll notice that I have disqus enabled on my blog now, but this is only to get a sense of the UX of the service. It will be replaced eventually by parlez-vous' own comment system.

Till next time!